docs(ios): - Improve Remote Notification Support section (#1120)
invertase/notifee: docs-react-native/react-native/docs/ios/remote-notification-support.md

previous: /react-native/docs/ios/permissions
---

> It is recommended to only use a notification service extension if you require an image or need to modify the contents of the notification before its displayed.

> It's possible to display a notification with Notifee features from outside the app using remote notifications (a.k.a push notifications) by using `notifee_options` in APNs keys with our notification service extension helper.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to display a notification with Notifee features from outside the app using remote notifications (a.k.a push notifications) by using the combination of a`notifee_options` section in your remote notification message (see below for example) and the Notifee notification service extension helper.
```

> Adding a custom key `notifee_options` in the message payload enables Notifee to modify the notification before it is finally displayed to the end user. You can also change it as you please during this time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding a custom key `notifee_options` in the remote notification message (as shown below) enables Notifee to modify the notification before it is finally displayed to the end user. If your use case requires it, you may also use custom native code as shown below to change the notification before display
```

> > ⭐️ In order to bring the iOS experience closer to the Android one, you can still send **data-only/local/background** notifications for Android while using **remote/alert** notifications for iOS [by configuring the right payload.](#configure-the-payload)

Reviewer: The terminology used is very important because the use cases are so critical. Rather than attempt to use a bunch of synonyms that are never fully defined, I want to use just the exact same words used to name the actual keys we are talking about in the JSON

```suggestion
> ⭐️ In order to bring the iOS experience - where data-only messages are rarely delivered -  closer to the Android one where data-only messages have high delivery rates, you may still send **data-only** notifications for Android while using messages with a **notification** payload for iOS [by configuring the right payload.](#configure-the-payload)
```

> * Add a product name (use `NotifeeNotificationService` to follow along) and click Finish

Reviewer: This is not directly related to this PR but has come up recently with two people and I want to take the chance to help future people

```suggestion
* Add a product name (use `NotifeeNotificationService` to follow along) and click Finish
  * You may use Swift or Objective-C where it says 'language' but be sure to follow the correct section below depending on your implementation language selection
```

end

```

> * Assuming you are using `react-native-firebase`, you'll also have to add `use_frameworks!` inside the target above as [you did when you followed their docs](https://rnfirebase.io/#altering-cocoapods-to-use-frameworks). 

Reviewer: Avoid contractions in documentation where possible (I try to remove them when I notice them)
This may help people with relatively weaker English language skills, I am sympathetic to that

```suggestion
* Assuming you are using `react-native-firebase`, you must also have to add `use_frameworks!` inside the target above as [you did when you followed their docs](https://rnfirebase.io/#altering-cocoapods-to-use-frameworks). 
```

```
<!-- <Vimeo id="remote-notification-support-3" caption="Step 3 - Edit NotificationService.m" /> -->

> Before, moving to the next step, run the app and check it builds successfully – make sure you have the correct target selected. 

Reviewer: I like this suggestion for people to do a build test? We used to get a lot of problems from people where they had a mix of "did not even add the extension correctly" and "added custom code that did not work"

It was useful to separate the concerns and make sure they added things correctly before they jumped in to custom code

Should probably make that suggestion *after* we suggest to add the import as the build test will then make sure they have altered their Podfile correctly to have the dependency on the notifee pod and everything is linked up correctly

Author: > It was useful to separate the concerns and make sure they added things correctly before they jumped in to custom code.

Hmm, that's a fair point.

However I decided to leave this "build and run app" step after all the native code changes because some people have some very slow machines and running multiple builds can be frustrating. Errors should be pretty descriptive, but it's up to you, reverting this line will be easy

> 🔗 [Apple Docs: Modifying content in newly delivered notifications](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/usernotifications/modifying-content-in-newly-delivered-notifications#Implement-your-extensions-handler-methods)

#### Objective C:

> 

Reviewer: Should we direct people to make sure they have the right import?

```objective-c
#import "NotifeeExtensionHelper.h"
```

Author: Good idea, I also add the imports in the example codes, however it's also mentioned here:
https://github.com/invertase/notifee/blob/aa5336b32f9d8fd47d3cfa46e4e1650d8ce4937a/docs-react-native/react-native/docs/ios/remote-notification-support.md?plain=1#L60-L65

In your `NotifeeNotificationService.m` file you should have method `didReceiveNotificationRequest` where we are calling `NotifeeExtensionHelper`. Now you can modify
`bestAttemptContent` before you send it to `NotifeeExtensionHelper`:

```objectivec
- (void)didReceiveNotificationRequest:(UNNotificationRequest *)request withContentHandler:(void (^)(UNNotificationContent * _Nonnull))contentHandler {
    self.contentHandler = contentHandler;
    self.bestAttemptContent = [request.content mutableCopy];

     // You can also modify the payload as you please here.
     // You have around 30 seconds

     // Notifee will mutate the notification according to notifee_options
    [NotifeeExtensionHelper populateNotificationContent:request
                                withContent: self.bestAttemptContent
                                withContentHandler:contentHandler];
}
```

#### Swift: 

In your `NotifeeNotificationService.swift` file, use the `didReceive(_:withContentHandler:)` method to enable the `NotifeeExtensionHelper`.
```swift

> override func didReceive(_ request: UNNotificationRequest,

Reviewer: similarly, might make sense to make sure they have the import?

```switf
import RNNotifeeCore
```

                         withContentHandler contentHandler: @escaping (UNNotificationContent) -> Void) {
    self.contentHandler = contentHandler
    self.bestAttempt = (request.content.mutableCopy() as? UNMutableNotificationContent)

    // Here you can also modify the content of the notification as you please here.
    // You have around 30 seconds

    // Notifee will mutate the notification according to notifee_options
    NotifeeExtensionHelper.populateNotificationContent(request,
                            with: self.bestAttempt!,
                            withContentHandler: contentHandler)
}
```

<br> 

> Before moving to the next step, run the app and check it builds successfully – make sure you have the correct target selected. 

Reviewer: I also like this suggestion here again - so they do a build test once before they try to do custom code, and now they do another build test after trying to make custom code but before moving on

>
> 🔗 [**Apple docs:** Configure-the-payload-for-thenotification](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/usernotifications/modifying-content-in-newly-delivered-notifications#Configure-the-payload-for-thenotification)

### Here's an example of a payload sent from the backend with Firebase Admin Node.js SDK

```ts

import type {Notification} from '@notifee/react-native/src/types/Notification';
import {AndroidImportance} from '@notifee/react-native/src/types/NotificationAndroid';
import {MulticastMessage} from 'firebase-admin/lib/messaging/messaging-api';
import admin from '../src/firebase-admin';

/**
 * @link https://notifee.app/react-native/reference/notification
 */
const notifeeOptions: Notification = {
  title: 'Title',
  subtitle: 'Subtitle',
  body: 'Main body content of the notification',
  image: 'https://placeimg.com/640/480/any', // URL to pointing to a remote image
  android: {
    channelId: 'default',
    importance: AndroidImportance.HIGH,
    lightUpScreen: true,
    pressAction: {
      id: 'default',
    },
    sound: 'default',
  },
  ios: {
    sound: 'media/kick.wav', // A local sound file you have inside your app's bundle

>     categoryId: 'post', // A category that's already been created by your app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    categoryId: 'post', // Must be a category already been created by your app
```

    attachments: [{url: 'https://placeimg.com/640/480/any', thumbnailHidden: true}] // array of attachments of type `IOSNotificationAttachment`
    // 🚧 Adding `foregroundPresentationOptions` controls how to
    // 👇 behave when app is UP AND RUNNING, not terminated, AND not in background!
    foregroundPresentationOptions: {
      badge: true,
      banner: true,
      list: true,
      sound: true,
    },
  },
};

/** 
 * @description Firebase Message
 * @link https://firebase.google.com/docs/reference/admin/node/firebase-admin.messaging.basemessage.md#basemessage_interface
 */
const message: MulticastMessage = {
  // ✅ We can continue using local/data-only notification for Android
  // 👍 while triggering iOS remote notifications from `apns`
  data: {notifee_options: JSON.stringify(notifeeOptions)},
  tokens: [],
  android: {

>     priority: 'high', // Needed to trigger data-only notifications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    priority: 'high', // Needed to achieve reliable delivery for data-only notifications on Android
```

  },
  apns: {
    payload: {
      notifee_options: notifeeOptions,
      aps: {
        // Payloads coming from Admin SDK should specify params in camelCase. 
        // Payloads from REST API should specify in kebab-case
        // see their respective reference documentation
        alert: {

>           // 🚧 This is needed to trigger an alert/remote notification only for iOS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          // 🚧 This is needed to achieve reliable delivery only for iOS
```
